Address final review (#14)
OpenLiberty/guide-microprofile-config-profile: README.adoc

:page-layout: guide-multipane
:page-duration: 20 minutes
:page-releasedate: 2023-01-31
:page-description: Learn how to use the config profile feature in MicroProfile Config to provide configurations for different phases in the DevOps lifecycle.
:page-tags: ['MicroProfile']
:page-permalink: /guides/{projectid}
:page-related-guides: ['microprofile-config-intro', 'microprofile-config-apis']
:common-includes: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenLiberty/guides-common/prod
:source-highlighter: prettify

> :page-seo-title: Configuring Java microservices for multiple environments using Eclipse MicroProfile Config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:page-seo-title: Configuring Java microservices for multiple environments using MicroProfile Config
```

I dont think we use "Eclipse MicroProfile" for the product name anymore

> :page-seo-description: A tutorial and example on how to configure multiple project environments and development stages in DevOps lifecycle for Java microservices using the config profile feature in Eclipse MicroProfile Config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:page-seo-description: A tutorial and example on how to configure multiple project environments and development stages in DevOps lifecycle for Java microservices using the config profile feature in MicroProfile Config.
```

:guide-author: Open Liberty
= Configuring microservices for multiple environments

[.hidden]
NOTE: This repository contains the guide documentation source. To view the guide in published form, view it on the https://openliberty.io/guides/{projectid}.html[Open Liberty website].

> Learn how to configure microservices for multiple environments using MicroProfile Config's config profile feature, allowing for streamlined management of configurations across different phases of the DevOps lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to configure microservices for multiple environments using MicroProfile Config's config profile feature, which streamlines the management of configurations across different phases of the DevOps lifecycle.
```

// =================================================================================================
== What you'll learn

Managing configurations for microservices can be a time-consuming task, especially when configuration properties need to be adjusted for different stages of the DevOps lifecycle. MicroProfile Config's https://download.eclipse.org/microprofile/microprofile-config-3.0/microprofile-config-spec-3.0.html#configprofile[config profile^] feature offers an efficient solution by allowing you to easily manage configurations for your microservices in various environments, from development to production and across your DevOps pipeline. By providing different sets of configuration properties for each environment, you can streamline the process and focus on delivering your application with ease.

> You'll learn how to provide different sets of configuration properties for each environment using the MicroProfile Config's config profile feature for your microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll learn how to provide different sets of configuration properties for each environment using MicroProfile Config's config profile feature. You'll create config profiles at both the property level and the ConfigSource level.
```

This guide builds on the basics of the https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-config-intro.html[Separating configuration from code in microservices^] guide and the https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-config.html[Configuring microservices^] guide. If you are not familiar with externalizing the configuration of microservices, it will be helpful to read https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/external-configuration.html[this document^] and complete those guides before proceeding.

> The application that you will be working with is a `query` service, which fetches information about the running JVM from a `system` microservice. The `system` microservice requires different ports and credentials to access in the testing environment compared to the development environment. To address this, you'll use MicroProfile Config's config profile feature to provide the `query` service with different configurations for accessing the `system` service in each environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application that you will work with is a `query` service, which fetches information about the running JVM from a `system` microservice. The `system` microservice is accessed by different ports and credentials in the testing environment compared to the development environment. To address this change, you'll use MicroProfile Config's config profile feature to provide the `query` service with different configurations for accessing the `system` service in each environment.
```

include::finish/system/src/main/liberty/config/server.xml[]
----

> During testing, the server configurations from the [hotspot=testing file=0]`testing` profile in the [hotspot file=0]`system/pom.xml` file are used for running the `system` service. You can find out that the `system` service runs on port [hotspot=test.port file=0]`9082` with context root [hotspot=test.context.root file=0]`system/test`, and a basic user registry is set up with username [hotspot=test.username file=0]`bob` and password [hotspot=test.password file=0]`bobpwd` to authorize access to resources from other services. Note that the `basicRegistry` element is a simple case for learning purposes, and for more information on different user registries, see the https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/user-registries-application-security.html[User registries documentation^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During testing, the server configurations from the [hotspot=testing file=0]`testing` profile in the [hotspot file=0]`system/pom.xml` file are used for running the `system` service. You can find out that the `system` service runs on port [hotspot=test.port file=0]`9082` with context root [hotspot=test.context.root file=0]`system/test`, and a basic user registry is set up with username [hotspot=test.username file=0]`bob` and password [hotspot=test.password file=0]`bobpwd` to authorize access to resources from other services. Note that the `basicRegistry` element is a simple case for learning purposes. For more information on different user registries, see the https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/user-registries-application-security.html[User registries documentation^].
```

include::start/query/src/main/resources/META-INF/microprofile-config.properties[]
----

Test the connection between the `query` service and the `system` service by pointing your browser to the http://localhost:9085/query/systems/localhost URL. The `query` service returns the message: `{"fail":"Failed to reach the client localhost."}`.

This failure occurs because the `system` service was started with the `development` profile, while the configuration properties defined in the [hotspot=system file=1]`query/src/main/resources/META-INF/microprofile-config.properties` file are configured for accessing the `testing` environment. 

To resolve the issue, you'll create a configuration profile in the `query` service with the configuration properties necessary to access the `system` service in the `development` environment.

// =================================================================================================
== Creating the configuration profile at the property level

> MicroProfile Config's config profile feature allows for the supply of configurations for different environments, such as development, testing, and production, while only a single profile is active. The active profile is set using the `mp.config.profile` property, which can be set in any of the ConfigSources or at application startup. Once set, the corresponding configuration properties associated with the active profile are used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MicroProfile Config's config profile feature allows for the supply of configurations for different environments, such as development, testing, and production, while only a single profile is active. The active profile is set using the `mp.config.profile` property, which can be set in any of the https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-config-intro.html#background-concepts[ConfigSources] or at application startup. Once set, the corresponding configuration properties associated with the active profile are used. 
```

Creating configuration profiles at the property level is useful when only a few configuration properties need to be set differently for each DevOps stage, such as when you require different database connection settings in different environments. 

> To provide a configuration property for a particular config profile, use the `%<mp.config.profile>.<property name> = <value>` syntax.

Reviewer: i find this a bit confusing. At line 164, you refer to "`mp.config.profile` property..." and the example syntax here is 
"`%<mp.config.profile>.<property name> = <value>`". So I think you have "mp.config.profile" used in two different contexts and its easy to wonder whether they are supposed to be the same thing.

Is there another way to show the syntax? like maybe

`%<config_profile_id>.<property name> = <value>`

?

Reviewer: you might state earlier in the guide that each config profile has a unique ID

Author: Edited the change requested in https://github.com/OpenLiberty/draft-guide-microprofile-config-profile/pull/14/commits/1fb7c4965bdfe9a65e7ada76a6b52ab381be86ea

After stopping the `query` service, restart it with the `development` config profile. To do so, run the following Maven goal from the `query` directory:

[role='command']
```
mvn liberty:dev -Dliberty.var.mp.config.profile="development"
```

By setting `mp.config.profile` to `development` as a Liberty variable, each `%development.*` property will override the value of its original property. For example, the [hotspot=dev.port file=0]`%development.system.httpPort` property will override the [hotspot=port file=0]`system.httpPort` property and the value will be resolved to `9081` in this case.

Keep in mind that the `mp.config.profile` property can be set in any of the ConfigSources, but it is read only at application startup. Any changes made after that will be ignored until the next application startup.

After restarting the `query` service with the `development` config profile, you can now access the application by using the http://localhost:9085/query/systems/localhost URL. You can see the current OS and Java version in JSON format.

// =================================================================================================

> == Creating the configuration profile using ConfigSource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating the configuration profile using a ConfigSource properties file
```

> In addition to creating configuration profiles at the property level, it's also possible to create configuration profiles using ConfigSources. This can be particularly useful when you need to manage a large number of configuration properties for different environments. For instance, each DevOps stage may require the application to run on different ports and context roots. Using ConfigSource to externalize and customize these configurations leads to a cleaner and more modular code design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to creating configuration profiles at the property level, it's also possible to create configuration profiles using ConfigSources. This can be particularly useful when you need to manage a large number of configuration properties for different environments. For instance, each DevOps stage may require the application to run on different ports and context roots. Using a ConfigSource to externalize and customize these configurations leads to a cleaner and more modular code design.
```

> To create a configuration profile at the Config Source level, simply create a file under the `META-INF` folder on the classpath with the naming convention `microprofile-config-<mp.config.profile>.properties`. Once you have created the file, you can add your configuration properties to it with the `<property name>=<value>` syntax. 

Reviewer: here again using mp.config.profile in the example syntax seems potentially confusing. Whatever you end up using for the earlier instance should be reused here, possibly

`microprofile-config-<config_profile_id>.properties`

Author: Edited the change requested in https://github.com/OpenLiberty/draft-guide-microprofile-config-profile/pull/14/commits/1fb7c4965bdfe9a65e7ada76a6b52ab381be86ea

> In this example, you will provide configuration properties for the `development` environment to the `query` service using ConfigSource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, you will provide configuration properties for the `development` environment to the `query` service using a ConfigSource properties file.
```
